So now we are going to create that normal function for this nie, which will be responsible for moving
the snake inside the frame.
So initializing the void more function and I think the functionalities inside the function.
Lastly, we will create a for loop and then for the dots.
And if there is greater than zero.
Then there the minus minus.
So the snake will start to move in the left direction like we have zero to three hundred.
So if the snake is that supposed twenty ninth position, so it will start moving in the left direction,
so z minus minus and setting the coordinates for the X and Y axis like X then.
Is equal to.
X z minus one.
And similarly, for the violence.
So I am hoping for the Y coordinate.
So the snake is moving this way.
Yes.
Now the snake has started to move.
So what happens then?
The snake moves in either of the four directions like left and right or up and down.
So we have to update the continent, its environs, if any, of the more takes place.
So I suppose if the snake moves in the left a direction, then this will result two x zero as a decrease
in their dart size.
So X0 zero minus not size.
Not science.
And had we are now similarly, we have to do this for four more times, like for total four times.
So copying this and trying to paste it three more times for the other direction says right.
Up and down.
So we have to cover all the four directions and what the consequences are going to be.
So if the snake moves in the left direction, the X coordinate decreases if it moves in the right direction.
It is going to be increase.
Similarly, if it goes in direction, then the y going to notice will decrease and isn't down direction
than the Y coordinate is going to increase.
Yes.
So here we are.
OK, so I change the same thing.
Let's do this and do this here.
So this is for the like.
I think I have pasted it.
One extra time.
So this is for the first day.
Yes, so that left direction is responsible for decreasing the Nazis in the X-Cart, and it will be
plus.
Now, as a quick explanation, if this any more than once, so we are going to blast like in the comments
I will show you.
What is this actually makes up for this?
Currently, the snake's explanation is up to five feet in the Y coordinate.
And if it moves downward, dragging this here.
So yes, suppose this y is equal to 240, and if it moves in the downward direction, then suppose it
is moving 10 units in the right direction.
Then this is the down key and we are the I have to update them regarding it as +10.
So this is what we are actually doing.
So 240 plus 10 is going to be 250.
And similarly supposes this snake moves up that action, then the white board and it is going to decrease,
not in these legs upward of the snake is here and it starts moving upward, not this leg, but this
thing.
So if the snake starts moving upwards, the Y coordinate will degrade her.
Though I got an intense zero and hand, though I coordinate this three hundred.
So obviously the snake moves upward.
Now I got an advanced degrees and similar is the case for the left.
Then the right direction keys.
If it moves index direction like level direction, the X coordinate will decrease and for the right
direction, the X coordinate will be headed to zero x and her X is equal to 300.
So we are done with the more function.
Now, as far as we have created, all the functions required in this snake borders our class.
We will create the action list not as.
Public void.
Action perform like what action is to be performed when any of the function is being called saw action
performed.
And so creating this action performed function and inside the parameters we are going to pass action
event as suppose a saw inside this function.
We are going to check if the game is on like I call it, as in game, I call in games.
Game is on.
You must have heard me before.
So if the game is on, then.
This is places, so check that the police there also check that the collision is performed, our lawn
check collision.
And move destiny.
So let me explain this thing like what action is actually being performed?
So there are three functions check Apple Check Collision and then move.
So I am going to explain this with the help of this frame.
So firstly, we have to check that the police present are not like if that is not up, then where this
snake is going to.
So the first thing we have executed inside the action of one thing is to check that box.
Then we have checked the collision.
Like, suppose that we have started the snake from this garden and then the snake is not going to move
at all, like the game will be over in the beginning.
So we have to check if the snake is not going to stay long.
So after checking that the police present, there is no collusion.
We are going to move the snake, simply move the snake.
And what is actually moving?
So hand moving the note.
We are now moving up down, left and right, and coordinates are operating in this way only.
So yes, the action often listen event is also covered.
So after creating that action list, that event.
Now we will come towards this big component like what actually is going to be done after the snake moves.
Next up was the snake moves itself.
Then what is going to happen?
So this paint company is calling the graphics like we have given the graphics here.
Above, so this graphic is going to yes, that is the graphic.
OK, so the graphic is going to end one more night behind the pale of destiny.
So now 50 SuperDart paint company heads of two and that image behind like I already told you, there
is no Disney.
We are just standing image after image and this we are going to do with the help of the parent company
now.
Graphics Andrew.
Three things are responsible for that now so that we have created super component and draw and draw.
Now the image will be drawn after the tail of the snake.
So insane the action placement part like the EA variable.
As we said, we have to call it Apink.
So the the parent is going to paint after the snake moves and stuff like checks if there is that.
But there are no collision and the snake moves and each step, then it will be an image after that tail
of destiny.
So after covering everything now add one more layer like let's try to run the function and check whether
the.
Now, before this, I am going to instead focus Sable.
Like we are going to contain.
This project and control the project as.
Keyboard functionality is only to myself being focus able to true.
The app will open in their default manner, like if they will click keyboard, then it will perform
their action.
And before this, nothing is going to happen.
So try checking that map is working or not.
Like if the snake is actually performing.
So yes, the snake has started to move from Iran and Apple has upgraded at random position.
But with the help of the random they have created and the function is also working correctly.
Like, if they are pressing the up key, it is moving y minus the y coordinate is being subtracted in
when pressing the left key.
Next, coordinate is being subtracted if we are going right.
The Y coordinate so an index coordinate is being added, so the snake has grown enough.
Now let us check that the collision five.
So hitting this advanced obstacle.
So the snake heads after the war and the pop up of as game over.
So everything we have created by far is working fine.
The snake was moving.
You think that Apple and the sides wasn't like you made the added one after the other and once Snake
hits, the stake in that game is over.
Now, one more functionality is to be checked, not whether the snake dies, if it hits itself or not.
So let's check that.
Also for that, we have to grow this snake for a minimum five pointers before.
The snake is not going to collide itself.
Let's hope that it does not emerge.
The walls mean in the mean time.
So let us try to shape the snake, which.
Let us grow it some more.
And now, yes, the game is over.
The head of the snake disappears and all the body parts are seen as the darts only and the game is over.
So let us summarize everything we have created.
We have created the snake glass inside, which we have called on new board.
We have our flame back and the resizable it is said to fall like the app is not being maximized.
The size is fixed of 300 density 300 with now coming to the border DOA.
We have imported swing and NWT packages have used the packages inside them.
The components like action listeners and inside the action list that we have created dedicated actions
for everything like fast moving forward.
The keyboard keys like controlling the keys for gluing the snake for the collision and everything.
We have successfully added the image icons.
So make sure that you send the parts correctly in order to name each appearance.
We have initiated the game center time or we have located that, but we have checked that if Apple is
eaten or not utensil increasing their darts accordingly.
We have created paint and graphics for adding images one behind another.
We have created a game over functionality.
So what should we appear on the screen when the obstacle is hidden and what is that functionality which
we are going to face when the game is over?
We are checking the colleges if the snake heads itself or any of the four rolls and the game is over
and time on this stuff.
So I hope you all must have gone properly to this project broke down and we tried to make the game on
your own.
Thanking you all for attending this session, and we'll see you later with some next project.
Thank you.
See you in the next part.